#summary Geo-Temporal Extensions for Lucene

= Introduction =

Provides a very simple and efective Abstraction Top Layer on Lucene
Provide a collection of Extensions and Wrappers to main classes like IndexWriter, IndexSearcher, Document, Query
Provide integrated geographical, time and textual search services using local lucene and Sorting in two diferente models (Vector Space Model and Language Model)
Provide QE expansion using LucQE
Provide a framework to process collections in search topics returning output in TRECEVAL tool format
Provide an example using Braun Corpus and 7 runs with the configuration submited to TEL@CLEF 2008 Mono-language Adhoc task

= Libraries =

Lucene http://lucene.apache.org
local lucene http://sourceforge.net/projects/locallucene
LucQE
Lucene SandBox
IPLS Lucene with Language Model

====================
Compiling from source
====================

The Most up to date version of local lucene and libaries is available from 

Requirements
JSDK 1.5+
Ant 1.5+

Buildfile: build.xml

clean:

depends:
    [mkdir] Created dir: /Users/admin/java_projects/personal/locallucene/build
    [mkdir] Created dir: /Users/admin/java_projects/personal/locallucene/dist

compile:
    [javac] Compiling 9 source files to /Users/admin/java_projects/personal/locallucene/build

test:
    [junit] Running com.pjaol.search.test.UnitTests.TestDistance
    [junit] lat:[039888055075-039905434125] lng:[010252773908-010275126292]
    [junit] Distance Filter filtered: 12
    [junit] Results: 5
    [junit] =============================
    [junit] Name: McCormick &amp; Schmick's Seafood Restaurant, Distance :0.27090219604428784 -->0.27090219604428784
    [junit] Name: Jimmy's Old Town Tavern, Distance :1.7830312857614126 -->1.7830312857614126
    [junit] Name: Ned Devine's, Distance :3.491347894148351 -->3.491347894148351
    [junit] Name: Alf Laylah Wa Laylah, Distance :4.658789488719062 -->4.658789488719062
    [junit] Name: Old Brogue Irish Pub, Distance :5.019689759416986 -->5.019689759416986
    [junit] Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Time elapsed: 0.581 sec

jar:
      [jar] Building jar: /Users/admin/java_projects/personal/locallucene/dist/locallucene.jar

default:

BUILD SUCCESSFUL
Total time: 4 seconds
============================

Using LGTE
===============================

We provide a set of unit tests to help you to learn how to use LGTE. Our Library it is very similar to Lucene
and gives you an abstraction layer of time and spatial. You can find our examples at pt.utl.ist.lucene.test

Start with classes prefixed with SIMPLE. The other classes are also simple but there you will found more complex
tests. After the simple try TestSpatialDistanceWithLgteQueryParser and TestSpatialDistanceWithLgte.

In our spatial examples we use a set of bars and restaurants in Portalegre, Portugal.
We set the stadium as the start geoPoint. you can find a Google Earth Document KML with this information.
If you check the distances with Google Earth you will see that the results are correct.

=================================

TrecEval FrameWork

We provide a tool to index a collection, run a set of search topics and output the results in treckeval
format. This format is like a standard in information retrieval tasks. You can found i in package pt.utl.ist.lucene.treceval

We provide a test collection and a geospatial collection as an example and we configure those collections with a set of runs previously used in old tasks.
